Splitting the app into modules is great,
now we have a leaner app module which is a bit easier to read but we can also use modules to improve
the performance of our app and by the way, you might have wondered, how can we use the post module here
for example and declare something which we don't export
if I'm always telling you that we have to export things we want to use somewhere else and we are of
course using the post create component and the post list component in our entire app through the router.
Well, routing is something special actually
and that's exactly where I now will also continue working on. The router is managed globally you could
say, that is why we don't need to explicitly export the declared components to be able to use them here
and we can also use the router to only load code when we need it. For example, the login and sign-up routes,
we don't always need them,
we might not need to login or we might not visit them even if we could log.
So loading all the code for that, for these components and the attached logic in advance is a bit redundant.
For the post, it's a bit different,
we typically need the post list in post create component.
Now you could argue that we don't really need the post create component if we are not logged in but in
our current set up,
let's keep it combined with the post list component and let's both load eagerly,
so always at app startup let's say. But for the authentication files, I don't want to do that,
I want to load them lazily, which means only when we need them and the Angular router makes this very
very easy.
We can go to our auth module and there, I'll actually add an auth-routing.module.ts file,
so I want to manage the route for this module separately. For that, I'll export a class here, AuthRoutingModule
and
this will receive the normal @ngModule decorator which we have to import from @angular/core.
So let's import ngModule from @angular/core here
and now in here, I want to set up my routes, so I will add imports and just as in the AppRoutingModule
here where we set it up with for root with that route config, I will set up a similar route config
for my login and sign-up route which I will cut from the AppRoutingModule,
I will set that up in the AuthRoutingModule.
So here I will add routes which is of type routes which we have to import,
so that type is imported from @angular/router
and then I add my route config here. That of course means that the login and sign-up component
also needs to be added here,
so let's go to the AppRoutingModule and cut these two components from there,
remove the imports there,
that's important
and go to the AuthRoutingModule now and add the imports here instead. Of course the path needs to be
adjusted, both paths needs to be adjusted
and now we get the route set up here.
Now we'll use the router module again which also is imported from @angular/router
but now not with for root but with for child. This means we registered some child routes which will
be merged with the root router eventually and there I pass in my routes
and then I export my router module, just as in the AppRoutingModule, the for child is the important
difference.
Now we can go to the auth module, not app module, to the auth module
and here, I will import my AuthRoutingModule which of course means we have to add the import path at
the top, AuthRoutingModule from,
well that auth-routing.module file in that same folder here.
So now the AuthRoutingModule is added here, in that module we define the authentication related routes.
Now we go to the AppRoutingModule
and here we have to connect that root router to that child router and we do that by loading the entire
child module,
so by loading the auth module which in turn is aware of its relevant routes because we're importing the
AuthRoutingModule where we are clearly saying, hey which routes matter for this child module so to
say.
So this module knows which routes it needs and therefore we can connect it to our AppRoutingModule.
I'll add a new route here with a path
and now the path is a bit tricky
to be honest. We can't use login here because that path is already configured in the auth routing module
and therefore, Angular would construct the path which is login/login but we also can't use nothing
because that already is a path taken here too
and we don't want to override this.
So the easiest way of handling this is to simply use a new group for that routes array here in the auth
routing module.
So I will add a path of auth, you could also use user or anything like that, I will use auth here
and now you don't set up a component but instead, you add another property which is named loadChildren
and this allows you to add a string here which describes to the path you want to load lazily.
So this is a path which starts in the current folder
and then we go into the auth folder and there, we have our auth module. We removed the extension here and
then add a hashtag after which we specify the name of the class in that file because you could of
course name this anything you want theoretically,
so you have to tell Angular which class it should use as a module in the file you're pointing at.
So here, copy auth module and add this after the hashtag, make sure you get the casing correct.
Now all the routes registered here will be loaded
lazily. For that to really work,
I have to go to the app module and remove the auth module here and also the import up here, otherwise
it would be included in our bundle
and otherwise, we would also actually mess up our app.
So let's now save this and let's make sure we also adjust our links. In the header component, the login
and sign-up route can both be found under auth and then login and sign-up.
Now with that saved if we reload, we get an error if I try to load the login route because it can't find
auth/auth.module.
Now let's have a look at the app routing file.
Now that's a slight mistake from my side,
you have to use ./ here to tell Angular that this is relative from the app routing file.
So now if you click login, this gets loaded and the interesting part is if you go back to the main page
and you reload the app, if you open the network tab, let's clear all requests and
if you now click on login, now you see we have a new request and this actually is the source code related
to the login and sign-up components
and this is only loaded when you need it
which of course means you're not loading all the code which you might not need upfront.
So this is now how we can add lazy loading, it makes of course way more sense for way bigger apps where
you load big chunks of your app lazily
but here already you see the technique and it works the same, no matter if you load ten or thousands of
components lazily.